So we've looked a lot at HTML.
Let's talk about ARIA.
We've already kind of been
touching on ARIA quite a bit.
We've looked at some ARIA attributes.
We've seen some roles.
But let's dive further into what is ARIA.
So ARIA stands for
Accessible Rich Internet Applications.
It's a specification, it's a standard.
It's a way to add accessibility
information through your web apps.
I think historically the idea
of it was for things like XML.
It is pretty useful in SVG.
I don't know how useful
it ever was with XML, but
in HTML,
it's pretty embedded in everything we do.
And we'll look at why.
The current version of ARIA,
as of right now, is 1.2.
And so this link for
the WAI-ARIA specification.
There it is.
We've already seen it once or twice.
I often have this open in a browser tab or
at least an auto-complete click
away because it has so much information
in it that is relevant and helpful.
But it's also a big, scary spec document,
so you will be forgiven if
you're not totally excited to go and
read the ARIA specification.
But just know that it's there and
it is the basis of a lot of the technical
aspects of what we're discussing.
But it shouldn't be the first
thing you reach for.
It is somewhat of an advanced tool.
I have an image from the Simpsons of Homer
holding up a big glass of beer going,
to ARIA!
The cause of and solution to
all our accessibility problems.
And that's because for
everything that it helps us with,
it also can make things
very potentially worse.
If you slap a bunch of ARIA on
stuff without knowing what it does,
it can be pretty terrible.
Like the thing we just fixed with
inert was to counter an aria-issue,
where aria-hidden was on something
that had focusable elements in it.
And when you put the ARIA on your markup,
if you don't ever test it, or
it isn't caught by something like X,
you'll just never know.
And someone with a screen reader will come
in and use your site and it's terrible.
[LAUGH] You have no idea.
So that's kind of why it has this
reputation of being the cause of and
solution to all of our
accessibility problems.
And I have to give kudos to WebAIM.
The people who gave us the screen reader
survey and another project called
the WebAIM Million where they scandal
the top homepages for accessibility.
They have this awesome blog post about
how ARIA is basically the cause and
solution of our problems.
It just cracks me up.
But fortunately, our tooling as you
saw with AX, it's really getting off
awesome at telling us when we have goofed
about something that we don't realize.
So HTML and
ARIA work very closely together.
We've seen some of this
already with roles,
the built-in roles, for links,
buttons, form elements,
landmarks, those roles that
come with those element names,
they're ARIA roles just like the ones
that we bolt on with the role attribute.
It's just some are built in
that are implicit roles, and
explicit roles are the ones
that we bolt on.
So we should try and use the implicit,
you know built-in stuff first,
support tends to be a little bit better.
Yeah, there's other functionality
that comes along with those, like,
if you have a button element, it's gonna
give you a lot of behavior for free,
whereas a button role is
only gonna bolt on the role.
There's other things that you have to add.
So yeah, built-in versus bolted-on.
So which docs should you use?
The ARIA standard from the W3C
is a good source of truth.
But again,
it's kind of not the most approachable.
So MDN or
Mozilla Developer Network is awesome,
they have great ARIA docs.
ARIA, as I mentioned earlier today,
is also developed in the open on GitHub.
So you can go and see, how are they
even coming up with these standards?
Which browsers and
screen readers are still causing issues,
or is there an issue with it?
And so that's pretty fascinating
to see how that work gets done.
And you can definitely learn things about,
like I've opened up issues on ARIA,
or not opened them, but
looked at them, when I use a certain
role or a certain attribute and
it's just not working quite right, and
I'll go and search it in the issues.
And there will already be
a discussion about it.
And I'm like, okay, that's expected.
That's the way it worked.
And I think the example I saw was
they designed ARIA in a certain
way because of how people
use screen readers.
I had a misconception about
how screen readers are used.
And Aria was designed more for people
who are actually using screen readers.
So sometimes our developer biases
lead us down that path and
we can go, okay, I just didn't know.
So it can be helpful for
learning about that.
Web.dev also has a ton of ARIA
information from the Google team.
An HTML5 doctor, I think it's
a little bit dated at this point,
but it historically has had
really great info about how
elements work in HTML and
the HTML5 heading algorithm.
They they wrote about that.